[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Carren, a very
warm welcome to you.
Thank you so much
for joining us.
>> Well, it's a
treat to be here.
So thank you for having me.
>> Well, I'm so excited about
this beautiful conversation
that I know we're going to have
because I've actually done some
of your work.
And you've actually helped
me through a part in my life
where I have a lot of anxiety
around public speaking.
And I came along and did
your art of public speaking
and went on to do a few more
of your courses as well.
And I can't say
how much they have
helped me address that
particular part of my life
that was freaking me out.
>> And I remember you well.
[LAUGHTER]
>> Freaking out?
>> Well, there were moments.
But I think even amongst--
I think even amongst all
the work that you did,
I really watched you
just excel and rise
above and beyond everything
that held you back.
It was almost as if, when
you came into my programs,
you had this sense of
nothing's going to beat me.
Nothing's going to hold me down.
Nothing's going to hold me back.
And you totally nailed it.
>> Aw, that's very sweet of you.
Thank you.
Well, you're an
amazing entrepreneur.
And one of the reasons
that we have chosen
on Healthy Me Summits
to invite people
to share their
personal stories is
because, you know, as part
of the Healthy Me Summits,
we wanted to have the
experts and talking
about depression and anxiety
and the tools and the science.
But we also wanted to have
people that come and share
their personal story,
so that our audience can
connect to those that
have truly been there
and connect with people that
are going to offer them,
through their story, an
opportunity of perhaps
connecting with something that
resonates with them that they
might not have
thought of yet, that
can be just that light
bulb moment for them, that
could be the turnaround
that, up until now,
they haven't had the opportunity
of connecting to them.
So with that your story--
and when I met you, I had
no idea of anything at all.
And so when you shared
with us in the workshop
and the story just sort of
came out, and I was just like,
oh my god.
How do you ever come
back from such a space?
So could you just
share with our audience
what you have been through?
>> Yeah.
I can.
And I think that the
point that you make
is that for most people, what
goes on underneath the surface
and what goes on
behind closed doors,
we don't show the public.
It doesn't come out.
And it's not worn as a
great scar on our faces.
But what's happening
underneath the surface
can sometimes be this bubbling,
boiling, seething pool
of pain and suffering.
And one of the reasons why
I do the work that I do
is because I want people to
see that as their experiences
and as their stories,
they can become more.
And they lost their lives can
evolve as a result of that.
And I guess I wouldn't have
known that had I not going
my own journey.
So for me, 2001--
my partner committed suicide.
Now I wasn't expecting it.
We were going through
some challenging times
in our relationship.
That's not a secret.
So we were struggling.
He was in the movie industry.
And he was away a lot.
I was working long
hours in my role.
And we just were missing
the mark with each other.
One thing led to another.
The relationship wasn't
able to recover itself.
And unfortunately for me, I
thought that this would just
be a thing of time.
I thought that we would just
keep working together, seeing
counselors, trying to make what
we dreamed of come to life.
We'd been together
for eight years.
Our plan was that I
would fall pregnant.
We would build our dream home.
And I'd give up work.
Hi.
And that was just
going to be the dream.
But I felt that if we kept
working at it, we'd get there.
He didn't have the same vision.
In fact, for him, his vision
was more a case of he--
and I'll never know this
to be absolutely true--
but I think for
him he felt that it
was beyond his ability to cope.
It was beyond his
ability to make it right.
And there was this deep sense
of self-loathing and self-hatred
that I saw And.
I watched and
spoke to him about,
that I felt helpless to be able
to save him from himself, which
ultimately led to his suicide.
And of course, you know,
at the end of the day,
it doesn't matter how
intelligent we are.
It doesn't matter
how old we are.
We're still little kids inside.
You know, inside there's
still this little person
that doesn't know how to deal
with something like that.
And when I discovered that
he had taken his life,
I pulled into my driveway.
I was met by the police.
And it was awfully
traumatic and dramatic,
the way that I discovered it.
So I think that that whole
understand of what had occurred
really missed the mark for me.
You know, at school,
we learn about science.
We learn about maths.
We learn about English.
But we don't learn
about life and death.
And we don't learn about
the things that really--
>> Impact us.
>> Yeah.
And rock us at the core.
We don't learn about how
to put that in a frame
and understand it.
And the police
officer handed me part
of what he'd found in the home.
And he said to me, this is
what your partner left behind,
Carren.
He said, so I'm assuming
that it was about you,
and he did it because of you.
Now innocently enough--
innocently enough--
he wouldn't have known
that he, at that moment,
told me how to deal with it.
He wouldn't have known.
In his mind, he was just
giving me information.
But in my mind, I didn't
know what to do with it.
Here I was sitting
there with this suicide.
What do I do with it?
How do I make sense of it?
How do I reconcile
and assimilate it?
And when he said, it was
your fault, I went, great.
I'll take that.
So I remember thinking to
myself that I was responsible.
How could I have
been so conceited
that I was so caught up in my
own pain I'd never seen his?
How could I be so
oblivious to the person
that I loved the
most in the world
and not see what
he was suffering?
So of course, that
put me on a trajectory
of my own suicidal
experience over the course
of the coming weeks and months.
And to live with
the responsibility
that the person that
you love the most
has taken their life because
of you, to see his family,
and to watch the pain
in his father's eyes
was one of the most destructive
emotions I think I felt.
And then to see all of
his dear close friends--
like his mates-- look at me.
And I don't know what
they thought of me.
But in my mind, I thought
they must have hated me.
Because I was the
closest person to him.
And even though they
didn't know what
had gone on between us
behind closed doors,
I thought that everybody was
looking at me with hatred.
So with that in my mind,
I'd wake up in the morning.
And I'd look at my face.
And I'd brush my teeth.
And I hated--
hated-- what I saw.
I hated the sound of my voice.
I hated the thoughts that I had.
I hated my eyes.
I hated my hands.
The amount of
self-hatred that I was
able to stir up in such
a short period of time,
when I look back on
that, was profound,
to the point where
I wouldn't eat
because I hated myself so much.
I didn't deserve the
pleasure of food.
I wouldn't laugh
because I didn't deserve
the pleasure of laughing.
I wouldn't wear anything
that was flattering
because I didn't deserve that.
I developed a rash that
went from the bottom
of the soles of my feet
all the way up to my chin.
It just covered my body.
And I would tear my skin
apart with such hate.
But at the time, I'd
think, you deserve this.
Rip it.
And it was like this real
sense of wanting harm
to come to myself.
And as that
accelerated as it does,
I fell deeper and
deeper into depression,
until finally I became so
disassociated from reality
that, in my mind, I thought
the only way out of all of this
and the only way to pay my
price was to take my own life.
And in my mind, I thought
that pays my price.
I killed my partner.
I must die, too.
My friends and my
family are suffering
watching this disgusting
creature walk the streets.
They'll have peace.
That works.
My parents are suffering
watching their child be
self-destructive.
Finally, they'll have peace.
And I'll be back in my
rightful place with him.
Happy days.
>> So it was a very conscious
process that you were going
through of almost planning
the entire process.
>> Right down to
the last moment.
Absolutely.
>> And just during this
particular time and this
experience, had you seeked
out any help at all?
>> I had seen maybe 10
to 15 psychologists.
And I'd seen four psychiatrists.
And they had some they
had prescribed me Valium.
They didn't want
to give me anything
as far as an anti-depressant
was concerned.
They just wanted to
give me the Valium.
But the problem with Valium
is that it numbs the body.
But nothing numbs the brain.
So even though I was
lying there motionless
because I'd either had
too much, whatever it was,
the brain didn't stop.
And the mind was
constantly on repeat.
It was set to repeat
on how hateful I was,
how undeserving I was,
how unlovable I was.
Am I still living in this
nightmare that I've created?
I killed him.
And those thoughts take a
person on an accelerated journey
of absolute depression that,
unless something significant
happens to change that,
it's a downward spiral.
And then, of course,
from that, then you
get the chemical imbalances.
And then it becomes
a physiological
and a biological issue.
But it doesn't take long for
what manifests in the mind
to manifest in the body.
It doesn't take long at all.
>> OK.
So there you were.
You were planning.
And you'd set a date?
>> Well, the anniversary of my
partner's suicide was the 14th
of October.
And on the 12th of October,
I'd arranged to fly myself
from Sydney to Bali.
And my intention was
that I would be in Ubud.
And I had my whole
plan laid out.
And no one would know.
There would be a
note they advising
how to contact my family.
But no one would
actually find me.
And that was what was
really important to me.
I wanted them to not have
to deal with that side of it
but to just have to come
to terms with the fact
that there would be nothing
but relief, that finally
all the suffering was over.
And in my mind, that's
what I had figured
was the right thing to do.
So for me, I felt peace when I
came to that resolved decision.
Granted, I wasn't
completely associated.
I wasn't completely--
I wasn't right.
My two girlfriends
decided to come with me.
One of them was my dearest
friend, my best friend Jodi.
Her and I were
like soul sisters.
And I'd always say, you
know, whenever she sneezed,
I blew my nose.
It was almost like we just were,
you know, peas and carrots.
We just went together.
And she came with me to Bali.
And she said there's no
way I'm leaving you alone
on the anniversary of
your partner's death.
I'm not doing that.
I'm coming with you.
And I thought, well, that's OK.
She can come with me
for a couple of days.
But then on the anniversary,
I'd book myself into Ubud.
She didn't know.
But I booked myself
in to go up there.
And then that's where
I would take my life
and finally get relief.
So we landed in Bali on
the 12th of October, 2002.
That night, unpack our bags
and head out to the Sari Club.
And like normal Aussies,
we were having a ball.
And I actually felt really--
I felt peace.
I felt calm because I
knew that my end was just
around the corner.
And I thought, you know what?
I can actually now just
spend some quality time
with the person I love.
That's all that matters.
But in my mind, I had
this holy grail that
was my answer to everything.
And it was 11:30 that night.
And I was standing next
to Jodi and Charmaine.
We were really, really close to
each other because it was loud.
It was a nightclub.
And we were talking.
And this fellow grabbed
my arm and spun me around,
as if to take me
onto the dance floor
and as he grabbed me
and spun me around.
That's when the
bombing went off.
So I didn't realize
this at the time.
But I was blown backwards
into the dance floor.
And Jodi and Charmaine were
blown forwards into the bar.
So when I woke up, all I could
see was a hand over my face.
I could see
somebody's hair here.
There were legs across me.
There were arms across my legs.
And nobody was moving.
Everybody was dead still.
And I had no idea
what had happened.
In my mind, my first
thought was an earthquake.
But I heard this--
or actually I think
I felt a sensation of pulling.
And it was so intense
that I started screaming.
And I started yelling
saying, I am coming.
OK.
I'm coming.
I'm doing it.
I'm going.
All right.
And I started screaming that
because I felt that there was--
I can't say that I heard words.
But there was this unbelievable
presence of an urgency.
That's probably the
best way to describe it.
And I managed to
squirm my way out
from underneath
all of the rubble.
And when I surveyed
what was in front of me,
it was just all alight.
The roof had caved in.
It was like a grass
thatched roof.
And that was just
completely alight.
And I stood looking for Jodi
and Charmaine to be coming out.
And as I stood waiting for
them, crying out for them,
I felt my hair on my
face begin to burn.
My eyebrows singed
off, my eyelashes.
And you know that smell?
That smell was just so pungent.
It filled the air.
And I started to feel
and see my hair--
because my hair was
quite long then--
I started to see and feel
my hair saying to singe.
And I knew I
couldn't stand there.
So I turned to see
what was happening.
And everybody was
running towards the back
of the club, where there
was this man standing there.
And when I think of him,
I picture somebody that's
10 foot tall, so handsome.
And I reckon he had wings.
I reckon he did.
I think he had wings.
And he was picking
all of the girls
up and throwing us into
this small hole that
had been blown into
the back of the club,
pushing us through this
hole, helping us out.
But what he didn't realize
that on the other side of that
was completely ablaze.
So for the girls who
were wearing synthetics,
their clothes just
stuck to them and just
burnt through their skin.
But for those of us who
were wearing cotton--
and I was lucky, I was
in cotton and denim--
our clothes didn't burn,
not instantly anyway.
And we at least had
a fighting chance.
So the journey from
that part to getting out
onto the street in and
of itself was just,
you know, climbing
walls, jumping up--
felt like jumping up mountains.
But there was this one
occasion where I was running.
And I could feel the flames
burning into my back.
I could feel it.
And I was screaming.
And then as I was
screaming, I thought nobody
is going to hear you screaming.
What are you screaming for?
Run.
And this was the conversation.
And then I thought to
myself, God, please.
Don't let me run into a wall.
Please don't let me run to wall.
Please make the path clear.
And I ran straight
into a brick wall.
5 foot 2, straight into a
brick wall, and I thought,
I'm trapped.
Flames at my back, brick wall
in front of me, I'm trapped.
And honestly, Jo,
to this day, I've
been hypnotized four times.
I've revisited that through
various trance experiences.
And to this day, I cannot tell
you how I found myself standing
on top of that wall.
I don't know.
There was nothing
for me to grab on to.
There were no footholds.
There was nothing.
All I remember--
consciously remember--
was standing on top of that
wall and jumping off it.
But I don't know how I got
to the top of that wall.
And you know, when I
came back, my sister
looked at the huge,
big burn marks
that were perfectly circular
on my shoulder blades.
And my sister said, that's where
the angels plugged my wings in
to help me fly.
And you know, yeah.
It was pretty amazing.
And finally, I managed to get
myself out onto the street.
But I think this is the
part that, when I look back
on that experience, this is
the part that's been the most
profound learning curve for me.
It was that there were
people dying everywhere.
There were women that I sat with
that she took her last breath.
But there was no fear.
And the tears that
I'm crying now
is just through remembering.
But at the time,
there was no fear.
There was no sadness.
You know, we look back
on experiences like that.
And we imagine that it would
be terribly frightening.
But it wasn't at all.
In fact, quite the
opposite for everybody.
There was a man who I
sat between his legs
when I finally got
taken to the hospital.
And I watched him pass away.
But there was no fear.
There was just this most
intimate soul connection
that none of us were
frightened of each other.
None of us needed to
protect ourselves.
None of us needed to feel
like we were in danger.
None of us felt that way.
All there was was
this incredible sense
of oneness between all of us.
Finally, I was
taken to a hospital.
And they discovered that the
entire left side of my skull
had been totally crushed.
And the bone was
pressing in on the brain
and cutting off
the blood supply.
And the doctor said to me
that I had six hours to live.
And I found it ironic in
that moment that I'd gone
to Bali to take my own life.
And now I was in a fight for it.
And I looked around the room.
And I'd shared eight needles
with six people that day
in that room.
And I thought, well, if
that's the level of hygiene
that I'm going to
be experiencing,
then there's no way anybody's
going in to do brain surgery.
It's not happening,
not on my watch.
So then I had a completely
different focus.
Now it was about
keeping myself alive.
And there was nothing
in Bali that they
could give me that would
actually keep me alive.
There was no medication
they could give me.
There was nothing.
So it became a very mental
battle and a very conscious
battle of, how will I survive?
How will I keep myself alive?
And I managed to
through my family--
there was a phone in the
room-- they managed to get
me booked onto a Qantas flight.
But the doctors
had told me that I
had six hours at 7:00
AM in the morning.
So technically, by 1:00 PM, I
should have been lights out.
10:30 that night,
I boarded a plane.
And I flew six and a
half hours back to Sydney
while I held a drip for another
girl that sat next to me.
Because in my mind, if I
passed away on that plane, then
at least I was on my way home.
But in my mind, passing
away was not an option.
>> So it was just a massive
shift and turn around for what
you had gone for.
>> Oh.
Honestly, Jo, if I
could bottle that shift,
we could make the world a
peaceful place for everybody.
And then beyond peace,
there would be bliss.
Because we don't want
to rest in peace.
We want to be able to become
amazing because of our peace.
But when I got home,
my sister told me
that Jodi and Charmaine
didn't make it.
I was in the hospital
after the surgery.
And they told me that Jodi
and Charmaine didn't make it.
And you know, I remember
it hitting me dramatically.
Because now I felt responsible
for the death of three people.
You know, they
wouldn't have been
in Bali had it not been for me.
How does somebody handle that?
I certainly didn't have the
equipment to handle that.
And then a psychologist came in.
And she said to me,
Carren, with everything
that you've been through,
you will experience
post-traumatic stress disorder.
So I went, great.
You just taught me how to
deal with this one now, too.
Fantastic.
Now I've got all the
tools that I need.
And it was pretty much the
way that my days and weeks
unfolded after coming
out of the hospital.
You know, coming to
terms with the fact
that I was responsible for
the death of three people
was something that plagued
me beyond any kind of logic.
And I sought the
help of counselors.
I sought the help
of psychiatrists.
No one could help me.
And part of that was
because I didn't want help.
I didn't want
anybody to help me.
I wanted to own my pain.
I wanted to own my suffering.
I deserved it.
>> But had something
shifted at that point?
Had you started to think
about suicide again?
Because now you've
got three lives
that you were feeling
responsible for?
>> Such a good question.
Because I'd come so close
to losing my life in Bali,
my perspective
changed on suicide.
And there was this one
occasion when I got home.
And my partner Matt was there.
And I had just had
an anxiety attack.
And when I went into
the bedroom and I
was having my attack
in the corner,
he came to comfort me as he did.
And I pushed him away
with such ferocity.
And I'd been with him for
about five years at that point.
And he said to
me, you know what?
He said you're doing
this to yourself.
You're just doing
And I can't help you.
And it was such--
it was right timing,
right timing.
Because it shifted
my perspective.
And I thought, hang on a second.
Is he right?
No way he's right.
I'm not doing this to myself.
I'm in Bali bombing victim.
My partner committed suicide.
I deserve this.
I'm not doing this to myself.
And I went on for
three days saying,
I'm not doing this to myself.
I deserve this.
And it was the I in
that conversation
that made me think I am
not doing this to myself.
I deserve this.
I just contradicted
myself right there.
So it took me a while
to actually comprehend
what he'd said, you know.
And then I had a
conversation with my dad.
And this is a story
that I shared.
Do you want me to--
>> Yeah.
You know, when I first
heard you tell this,
you know, it
brought me to tears.
Inside, I just-- you know,
such a beautiful symbolic way
of describing your
transformation.
Because ultimately what you're
about share with us now,
would you call that
your real catalyst?
You know, we all have
that light bulb moment
that really turns you on.
I know what you mentioned
with your partner
and what he said to
you was one of them.
So just on that note, do you
feel that in your experience
there were many kind of
light bulbing moments
that came to the big
light bulb moment?
Or is there one
specific for you?
Is this one that you're going
to share this with us now,
is that one that was,
if you were to say,
the one thing that
really pulled me out
of my self-indulgent
of that pain?
>> Mm.
That's such a good question.
No one's ever asked
me that before.
There's nothing that was
memorable other than these two
instances.
And I know that my
family and friends all
tried different things.
My mom used to write
me poems and all
of those sorts of things.
But I think a person's
got to be ready.
And sometimes, that readiness
isn't only just up to us.
You know, I like to
think that there's
a universal force at play.
And when the time is right,
the time will be right.
And I had a miniature
Maltese terrier.
She was my little love
of my life, Dolly.
And she passed away
after 15 years.
And I remember ringing my dad.
And I've got the best
dad in the world.
And I said, Father, I said,
I just can't do this anymore.
There's just death.
And then there's
a bit of respite.
But then there's more death.
And then in between
there's just respite.
what's.
The purpose of it all?
And my dad calls me Booffy.
And I know that this is going
to go out to millions of people.
But I'm just get trust that
all the millions of people
are just going to
keep it between us.
So my dad calls me Booffy.
And he said to me, Buffy,
come and sit on daddy's lap.
And I was 36 at the time.
So I walked up and sat on his
lap, put my arm around him.
And my dad says, Booffy.
He said, I want
you to think about
a humble little caterpillar.
He said the humble
caterpillar goes about life,
being a caterpillar,
doing all the things
he does, thinking that he's
amazing because he can bulldoze
over a blade of grass.
And he said, he
thinks he's awesome.
He said, but life happens.
And instinct occurs.
And that little caterpillar
has no say in it.
And he said, and then all of a
sudden, that little caterpillar
starts to transform and spin
himself into a chrysalis.
He doesn't know
what's happening.
He's got no idea.
He has to go along for
the ride because it's just
life unfolding.
And he said to me, Booffy.
He said, inside that
chrysalis, that little
caterpillar-- he's liquefying.
He's consuming himself.
He's going through hell.
And he said to me, Booffy.
He said, what you've been
through is absolutely hell.
He said, no one can
say that it's not.
He's said, but like
that little caterpillar,
he said, that's not
the fight of your life.
He said, the fight
of your life is
being able to burst
out of that chrysalis
and to become the
beautiful butterfly because
of what you've gone through.
And oh my goodness.
It was like such a light
bulb moment, you know.
And he said to me, the fight
of that caterpillars life--
if anybody tries to help him--
they'll kill him.
He said, if anybody tries
to cut the chrysalis,
they'll cut his wing.
And he won't
develop the strength
that he needs to be
able to have the wind
catch underneath his
wings and for him
to get a completely different
perspective of life,
where bulldozing over a blade
of grass is no longer important.
But seeing the world from a
grander perspective-- that's
now his life, with
absolute beauty.
And he said to me, Booffy.
He said, that's a
shift in perspective
that is possible for you.
But none of us can
help you with it.
He said, you have to understand.
You've gone through
these experiences.
You've experienced depression
to the extent that you have.
He said, you've done
everything that you thought
was the best thing
that you could do
with what you had at the time.
But he said, now you're in
for the fight of your life.
Get ready for it.
He said, being blown up?
Walk in the park.
This-- fight of your life.
And he was right.
He was right.
Being blown up?
Happened in an instant.
Going through the suicide?
It happened over
a period of time.
But this now was to
be able does look
at all of my experiences,
the actual experiences
themselves, the depression--
because that in and of itself
is it is an experience.
The holding onto the blame
and the responsibility,
the holding onto the suffering--
that in and of itself
is a yet another experience.
So becoming something
because of that--
having all of those experiences
be the soil that fertilizes
what grows--
that was that conversation
that I had with my dad
that then was the final
catalyst that had me wake up.
It didn't happen overnight.
But it did happen.
It was absolutely the
most profound wake-up call
I possibly could have had
that placed me squarely
in the center of how my life
would unfold from that moment
on and how my life was unfolding
from every moment prior.
I was always at
the center of it.
And the belief of
what I was determined
the kind of experiences
that occurred in my life.
So while I believed
I was a sufferer,
that I should be in pain,
that I deserved all of this--
that was the kind of
life I was living.
And that was up to me.
I didn't know what
else to do with it.
But I did know that
that's what I was doing.
>> And so up until this point,
it's fair to say that you
actually didn't believe
that you could heal.
>> No way.
No way.
I had visions of myself
at 80 still on bended knee
with tears in my eyes wishing
and begging for an illness
to take my life.
I had visions of that.
No.
No way.
I never believed that there was
a healing possible, not for me.
Because I didn't deserve it.
>>So from hearing these words
of wisdom from your father
and being ready
to hear from them
and hear those words,
what sort of things
did you then start to do?
What kind of changes
in maybe lifestyle
habits or day-to-day
rituals did you
start to change
or begin in order
to support yourself to move
in the right direction?
>> So I guess for me it was
really about the realization
that I was the person waking
up with the thoughts that I was
hateful, that I was undeserving,
that I didn't deserve to be
here.
When I realized that
I was the one who
was generating
those thoughts, it
was a real eye opener for me.
But I did actually come
to that conclusion.
Because when I would go to bed
at night and I'd fall asleep,
I knew that I wasn't
depressed when I was asleep.
Even if I only
slept for an hour,
I knew that during the
time that I was asleep,
I wasn't depressed in that time.
So when I woke up I had
to recreate it for myself.
And I recreated depression
for myself with the thoughts
that I had.
So I had to become
very aware of what
I was thinking that
was then setting up
the rest of the experience
of the day for me.
And what I did was I put
a journal next to the bed.
Because I thought,
well, I'm not going
to try and stop those thoughts.
Because they're there.
So I'm not going to
pretend they're not there.
They are there.
And to a certain extent, I still
believed that I needed them.
I needed that because it was
part of my identity of who
I now was.
So I thought, I'm not
going to stop them.
I'm just going to record them.
So I wrote them all down.
And I had a little
journal next to the bed.
And every morning before
I'd get out of bed,
I'd write down all the
things that I was thinking.
And that way I got
it out of my head.
And then I discovered a book
called "The Artist's Way"
by Julia Cameron.
And I saw that she
has that in her book
called "morning pages."
And that was a real
confirmation for me
that I was actually
on the right track.
I was doing the right things.
And in that process
of emptying out
what was going on
between my two ears,
it then actually left me blank.
It left it empty.
And I thought, OK.
Well, now that it's empty, what
am I going to do with empty,
you know?
And that in and of itself
was a whole new way
of relating to life and to
the day and moment by moment
with an empty head.
If I'm not hating on
myself, what am I doing?
And it really gave
me an opportunity
to ask a different question.
If I'm not hating
myself, what am I doing?
And I didn't have an
answer for a couple--
well, I would say about six
months I didn't have an answer.
But I didn't let
the question go.
Because I thought, this is
part of the fight of my life.
And if I'm going to go
into the fight of my life,
I can't know what my opponent's
going to do day by day.
I can't know what life is going
to present me with day by day.
So I have to be prepared to go
into the abyss and the unknown.
And hell, I've been blown up.
I've been in the abyss.
I'll do it again.
And that was the way
that I spoke to myself
and I related to myself.
And I think that was the
catalyst to me saying, well,
if I'm not hating
myself, what am I doing?
And then I thought,
well, I'm helping people.
That's what I plan to do.
I will help people.
And then it would become
another question of, how?
What will you do?
What do you love?
Because I thought, I can't
have gone through everything
I've gone through to just go
back into a nine-to-five job
that I hate being a part of.
I've got to create
something amazing.
And that was when I
decided that I would become
a professional speaker
and I would start
sharing my experiences
with other people,
so that we would know
as people and humans
that we could get over
bankruptcy, a divorce, a car
accident, a loss of a loved one.
We can get over the
normal traumas of life
and understand that, with some
help, we can handle anything
and that we are the most
resilient beings and the most
complex beings that are
on the face of the earth.
So I really wanted to do that.
But it wasn't all
smooth sailing.
It wasn't all smooth sailing.
>> So through that time were
you still experiencing panic
attacks?
>> Look.
I think that the flashbacks,
the panic attacks, the anxiety,
the emotion behind it--
I mean, even just
sharing with you earlier,
the emotion is still very real.
I think that over the years
it's become less frequent.
As far as the anxiety
and the panic attacks,
they were very frequent
for a long, long time.
But what I found was that when
I was in resistance of them,
wishing that they weren't there,
and stomping my feet about it,
it just accelerated them.
So I thought in my mind I had
to do the direct opposite if I'm
to heal from this.
And my objective was from
what my dad had said to me.
This is the fight of your life.
And I know in any kind of fight,
you give in, and you've lost.
And that wasn't
an option anymore.
I think for me it was
about whatever it takes.
And I knew that if
I was in resistance
to the panic and the anxiety,
then it lasted longer.
So the direct opposite
of that was acceptance.
I didn't know what
that looked like.
But I just tried it.
And bearing in mind, I was
still seeing psychiatrists
and psychologists.
I was still on and off
anti-depressants at that time.
But I have to still be honest.
None of it helped.
None of it worked.
Because my mind was way
stronger than anybody else's.
And I think that's true
of everybody, particularly
people who are experiencing
anxiety, depression.
We think that there's
a weakness in that.
But let me tell you something.
Those minds are
like a steel trap.
And you know, the timing's
got to be right for the person
to be able to get to the other
side of that for themselves.
And that was when
I really realized,
if I am going to be in
this fight of my life,
I'm the fighter.
I'm the one with the
boxing gloves on.
As much as I had
my partner there
and my family is here to support
me, no one could fight for me.
I had to fight for me.
And I had to become
something worth fighting for.
And at the time, I didn't feel
that I was worth fighting for.
But just knowing
that I was in a fight
spurred me on to the next day
and then the next day and then
the next day.
So being with the anxiety,
sitting with it and saying,
I'm anxious.
I'm terrified.
I'm having a panic attack.
Let me just stop
everything that I'm doing,
not distract myself with
shopping or watching
television or eating.
Stop everything that I'm doing.
Sit on the floor.
And be in the anxiety.
Sit with it.
And the most fascinating thing
about being in the suffering
is it actually is like a wave.
It rides itself
out to the shore.
And the emotion burns itself
out if you go with it.
But if you fight
up against it, it's
going to build in pressure.
And I didn't know
that at the time.
But of course, now
looking back, I
can see that's absolutely a
reality, no matter what it is.
So I would just force myself--
as a ritual, I would
do the morning pages.
I would force myself whenever
I had a moment or a day--
because sometimes
it was a whole day--
I would force myself to not
do anything to distract myself
other than just being with
the emotion that was there
or the anxiety that was there.
I forced myself.
That was challenging.
Because I'm somebody who
likes to distract myself.
I've always been go
shopping, go eat something,
take your mind off it.
And most people will
tell us to do that.
You know, you start sobbing,
people will go, oh, sh,
don't cry.
So you know, I came
from that same mindset,
that same conditioning.
>> And it's very interesting
to hear after, you know,
speaking to so many amazing
people and their stories is
a common theme that I'm
starting to establish now.
And that is, as you
say, when we can
learn to use our breath
and our mindfulness
to sit in that emotion--
which, you know,
science has shown
us is just energy in motion,
energy moving through the body.
And so that emotion that has
such strong feeling to it--
when we can start to learn
to be with it, sit with it--
we disperse its power over us.
And that's where
really, you know,
as you said before, the
power in someone's mind
who is actually suffering from
depression, anxiety, little
do they know really
how powerful they are.
And the journey to
actually harnessing
the power of the mind--
and the irony of that
now is that that's
exactly where you are.
It's where you teach.
And it's the area
in which you now
live your life traveling and
teaching and mentoring others
as to how to really harness
the power of the mind
and the power of
mindset and mindfulness.
Can you just share with
us where you are today
and how that gift is shared?
>> And you know, I
so see it as a gift.
I really look at
my experiences--
and I'm on an evolving journey.
I really look at my experiences.
And I think to
myself, wow, if only
I knew the lives that my
experiences would touch.
And it's not me.
It's not me is this person that
feels like a seven-year-old kid
inside.
Because if you said,
let's go roller skating,
I'd be with you in a heartbeat.
So it's not actually me.
It's the experiences.
And it's what was produced as
a result of those experiences
that have been my greatest
teachers and show me who I am.
And what I've also realized
is that we are all the same.
We are all the same.
We come wrapped in
different packages.
But underneath, we
are all the same.
And we use our story
and our experiences
throughout the
course of our lives
as a vehicle to
have us become less.
We apply so much meaning to
what's occurred in our lives.
Somebody's unfaithful.
I'm not deserving.
I shouldn't trust men.
Or somebody goes
through a bankruptcy.
I'm bad with money.
I'll never be any good.
You know, like you hear
something when you're a child--
you never win competitions.
I'm a failure.
We attach all this
meaning to all
these insignificant occurrences
that are simply experiences.
Yes, some of them come with
challenge and some of them
come with contrast.
But there's a real
point that we're
missing is that the
contrast and the challenge
is designed to have
us become more.
It's not designed to
have us become less.
We live in an
expanding universe.
We are constantly evolving
and changing physiologically,
biologically.
So why would our conscious
experience and awareness
through our experiences
have us become less
when the whole aim of
life is to become more?
Either way, we're
landing up in a box.
That's the way I see it.
Either way, we're
landing up in a box.
We're either going to get
there with this belief that
were useless and hopeless.
Or we're going to get
there with this belief
that everything is possible.
Let me give it a go.
And through my
experiences, it had
me see that it wasn't just
me that was suffering.
Granted, my experiences
were fairly unique.
My feelings were not unique.
The depression, the
anxiety, the residual--
the suffering-- was not unique.
And the Dalai Lama said that
pain happens in an instant.
Suffering is our
desire to hold onto it.
Now there's a statement worth
a million bucks honestly.
And because of all
of that realization,
it's driven me to do
the work that I do now.
Because I really see
that, as somebody
who's experienced what I have,
it didn't just occur for me.
It's occurred on
behalf of mankind.
And the crime would be in
me holding that learning
and that knowing to myself
of who we are, what we are,
and what's possible
for us beyond what we
read in books, beyond what
we're conditioned to believe.
The real us, the true us, the
seven-year-old inside of us--
that is the real us.
Now how does that find
its way in this world
in a way that is so powerful,
potent, and profound that it
becomes the most extraordinary
example for everybody
else in our lives?
And bottling the
focus and potency
of what occurred in Bali
is what I really believe
has become my
blessing and gift now.
And the work that I do--
I run workshops.
And I speak globally.
I do in excess of about 180
presentations every year.
I am Australia's most
experienced speaker.
I'm now one of the most sought
after presenters on mindset
and the psychology
of wealth and health
from a point of view
of that deep self
and also the effortless
self, by being
able to be us effortlessly.
And that is being the
seven-year-old without all the
baggage, to be the
self effortlessly.
And it takes reconditioning.
It takes seeing a new normal.
And I feel very
blessed that I was
able to have somebody put a
bomb under my butt to wake me up
on behalf of humanity.
And now I really feel like
it's come full circle.
And it hasn't even finished yet.
Feel like the rain just started.
It's just the beginning.
But I feel blessed to
be able to do this work
and to touch the lives
of as many people
as I possibly can before
the end of my days,
to wake as many people up, and
to be part of this ground swell
that you're obviously
part of it as well.
You know, to have people
say, hang on a sec.
I'm at the center of this.
I am the cause.
I am also at the effect.
And I am responsible.
It's my life.
>> Carren, thank you so
much for sharing your story,
for the inspiration that you
are now and that you continue
to live for.
Every time I think of you, I
just think of the caterpillar
into this most beautiful
butterfly which you are now.
And you know, you fly around
just sharing your beauty
and your inspiration.
And I thank you so much
for today and for sharing
and for everything
you continue to do.
You're truly, truly
a gift to us all.
Thank you.
>> Oh.
And right back at you.
Right back at you.
Thank you for having me.
>> Wonderful.